# 0. Course Oeverview
## What is linux operating system?
<p align="justify">
Linux® is an open source operating system (OS). An operating system is the software that directly manages a system's hardware and resources, like CPU, memory, and storage. The OS sits between applications and hardware and makes the connections between all of your software and the physical resources that do the work.
</p>

### What is better Linux or Windows?
<p align="justify">
Windows is generally considered to be easier to use, while Linux is known for its stability and security. In recent years, Linux has been gaining popularity as a desktop operating system, mainly due to the emergence of user-friendly distributions such as Ubuntu and Mint.
</p>

<p align="justify">
The choice between Linux and Windows as an operating system (OS) depends on the user’s needs and preferences. Linux is a popular choice for developers and those who prefer open-source software, as the source code is freely available for modification and distribution.
</p>

### Popular Linux distros
|No|Distros|Type|Command Line|Example|
| :-: | :-: | :-: |:- |:-|
|1|Debian|OS|apt/apt-get install +packege name.|apt install httpd or apt-get install httpd|
|2|Red Hat|OS|yum install +packege name.| yum install httpd |
|3|Ubuntu|OS|apt/apt-get install +packege name.|apt install httpd or apt-get install httpd|
|4|Oracle Linux|OS|yum install +packege name.|yum install httpd|
|5|CenTos|OS|yum install +packege name.|yum install httpd|
|6|Oracle Solaris|OS|yum install +packege name.|yum install httpd|
<p align="center"> TABLE 1 – Popular Linux distros </p>

<b> httpd </b> is the http service or web service that we use to install or hosting web application. Example you use httpd service to hosting wordpress or your own website.

<!--Thi wil descrip all above distros or what is that OS means-->
### Debian
<b>Debian</b> is an open source operating system. This distribution was first announced by Ian Murdock in 1993 as the “Debian Linux Release”. The Debian Project is a community of developers and users that maintain the GNU OS based on open source software. Currently, Debian systems use the Linux kernel or the FreeBSD kernel. However, they are also working on providing Debian for other kernels. Primarily, GNU Hurd.

<b>Debian License</b>: BSD, GPL and other open licenses.

<b>Debian Latest major release</b>: Debian 12 (Bookworm).

### Red Hat Enterprise
<b>Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL)</b> is a commercial Linux distribution developed by Red Hat. It has a server version and a desktop version. As it uses open source software, published under a General Public License, they make their code available to the public via CentOS. Red Hat has sponsored the CentOS project since 2014.

<b>RHEL License</b>: GPL.

<b>RHEL Latest major release</b>: RHEL 9.

### Ubuntu
<b>Ubuntu</b> is a Linux distribution based on Debian. It is developed by Canonical and a community of developers. It has 3 official editions: Desktop, Server and Core, which can either run on a computer or on a VM. More than 34% of the websites using Linux use Ubuntu, according to W3Techs data. Its growth since 2010 has been amazing. It is also a popular distribution among cloud computing projects.

<b>Ubuntu License</b>: GPL and other licenses.

<b>Ubuntu Latest major release with long-term support (LTS)</b>: Ubuntu 22.04 LTS (Jammy Jellyfish).

### Oracle Linux
<b>Oracle Linux (OL)</b> is a Linux distribution packaged and distributed by Oracle; under GNU GPL since late 2006. It was formerly known as Oracle Enterprise Linux (OEL). It is based on RHEL’s source code. Oracle Linux is available with two Linux kernels: the Red Hat Compatible Kernel (RHCK) and the Unbreakable Enterprise Kernel (UEK).

<b>Oracle Linux License</b>: GNU GPL and other licenses.

<b>Oracle Linux Latest major release</b>: Oracle Linux 9.

### CentOS
<b>CentOS Linux</b> is a distribution based on the source code of the commercial distribution Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL). It was launched in 2004 and is backed up by a growing community. It is a safe bet for those looking for high-quality code. But CentOS 8 will be its last version. In 2019, Red Hat announced that CentOS Linux would be replaced by CentOS Stream — an upstream development platform for RHEL. New open source alternatives have appeared due to this change of strategy. For instance, Rocky Linux, founded by Gregory Kurtzer, founder of the CentOS project.

<b>CentOS Linux License</b>: GNU GPL.

<b>CentOS Linux Latest major release</b>: CentOS Linux 8.
### Oracle Solaris
<b>Solaris</b> is a proprietary Unix operating system originally developed by Sun Microsystems. After the Sun acquisition by Oracle in 2010, it was renamed Oracle Solaris.

<b>Solaris</b> superseded the company's earlier SunOS in 1993, and became known for its scalability, especially on SPARC systems, and for originating many innovative features such as DTrace, ZFS and Time Slider.[4][5] Solaris supports SPARC and x86-64 workstations and servers from Oracle and other vendors. Solaris was registered as compliant with the Single UNIX Specification until 29 April 2019.